In this lecture, you'll learn about configuration management tools which let you implement automation
in your network without being an expert in programming configuration management systems are designed
to meet controlling large numbers of devices, easy for administrators and operations teams through
automation.
They allow you to control many different systems in an automated way.
From one central location on popular options are Ansible, Poppit and Chef.
They're all free and open source.
They do also have paid for enterprise editions available as well.
The main difference between the free and the Enterprise editions is that support comes with the need
for options.
Your configuration management tools can meet the provisioning and deployment of servers on network devices,
they require very little knowledge of programming.
So you don't need to be an experienced programmer to be able to implement automation in your network.
Now, they do have established development practices, including version control and testing.
So you get all the benefits you would have with network programmability, but you can do it using these
easier to use tools.
First of all, look at is ansible, it can be run from any machine with Python, two or three installed
Savides Linux and Mark by default.
And if you are using Ansible, typically you'll be running it from a Linux machine.
Ansible is agent, which meaning that you don't need to install a software plugin on the devices that
you're going to be managing.
You don't have to do anything on the devices you're going to be managing.
Everything is managed centrally from Ansible itself.
It uses a push model, so it pushes the configuration to the devices that you are configuring.
Ansible communicates over SSL by default.
Other options are available and Ansible is probably the simplest of the configuration management tools.
It's got very shallow, easy learning curve.
And Ansible was originally released in 2012.
Ensemble modules are pre-built Python scripts and many pre-built network modules exist, so if you are
going to use Ansible, there's many different modules, which are two different tasks that you can complete
on your network devices so you can pull information from them.
You can also push configuration to them as well.
And there's already loads of modules that are already configured that you can use.
You're not going to be starting from scratch.
Ansible inventory files defying all hopes that will be managed by the control workstation.
So when you set up Ansible for you should get Ansible installed and then you specify the devices that
you're going to be managing.
You do that by adding them to the inventory.
And Ansible playbooks are Yamal files that outline the instructions it needs to run.
So you've got the modules which are basically like the low level tasks that you're going to be carrying
out, that you need to customize those tasks as well for your particular environment.
You're going to need to specify things like the host, the IP addresses, if you're going to be configuring
IP addresses, etc. So you've got all these things combined.
You've got the module, the inventory and the playbooks, and that's how you control your devices.
Next one we have is puppet puppet, it typically uses an agent on the target devices, it is possible
for puppet to be run agent list now, but typically it does use an agent, meaning you do have to have
a software plugin on the devices that you're monitoring.
If you get asked the question about it on the Shishani, then Puppet is an agent based option.
The server that is used to control everything is called the puppet master but runs on Linux server.
And unlike Ansible, which uses a push model, Poppit uses a pool model.
She you still do all the configuration on the puppet master.
But rather than it pushing the config out to the devices, the devices check in with the puppet master
and they pool their configuration from there.
By default, the agent will check in every 30 minutes.
By default, puppet is in in Ruby.
It does not use YAML like Ansible does.
It uses its own proprietary DSL on Phurba terminology.
It's a manifest that defines the devices properties with Poppit, an advantage it does have over Ansible
because it uses a pool model rather than a push model, and because the devices are periodically checking
in, you can use that to check for configuration consistency.
So with Ansible, really, it's a one time thing when you push a configuration to the devices.
But with Poppit every 30 minutes, they're checking that their configuration is correct as an advantage
of using Poppit and Poppit is more mature than Ansible.
It was created in two thousand and five.
Blasim will look at is chef with chef like Poppit, an agent must be installed on the target devices.
You do need to install a software plugin on all the devices you're going to be managing.
Chef, again, like Pupper is also a pool model in Ruby on the terminology in chef is cookbooks and
recipes and chefs.
Also Mature was released in two thousand and nine.
So Ansible puppet on Chef Zober, not originally designed for managing network devices, but actually
designed primarily for server system administration like your Lennix in your Windows servers.
Ansible is typically more suitable for network environments and puppet and chef because it does not
require an agent for your server systems.
It's very easy and common to be installing software plug ins on there.
So it's not a big deal that with Poppit and Chef, you're going to install an agent on there on your
servers for the servers that you're going to be managing.
However, it's not common to be installing software, plug ins, installing agents on network devices.
So because of this, ansible is generally more suitable for network devices.
When Poppit on Shefa, Ansible is also simpler to learn and use than Poppit and Shafter.
So because of these three configuration management tools for managing network environments, Ansible
is the most popular and typically it's going to be the most suitable.
Cisco devices usually can't even run an agent, but puppet does work on some Nexus switches and more
support may be added in future.
Right now, there's a limited support for Poppit on Cisco devices.
There's basically no support for Chev right now that might change as the industry move forward.
Just may add additional support for Poppit and Jeff.
But with Ansible, because it does not require an agent on the devices, Ansible works just fine.
The box with all networked devices.
OK, that's everything I needed to tell you here.
In the next lecture, I'll actually show you what demo of Ansible.